The Virtual Doctor is an experimental and speculative design challenging the notions of space in a web page. Its content is based on a future in which I am speculating about, that being the obsolescence of doctors resulting in medical services being offered only through web applications.  However, beyond the issues of doctor obsolescence, the Virtual Doctor explores and comments on the issue of the “overpopulation” of websites, where nowadays almost all companies, capitalist giants, and everyday people make their lives on the web, resulting in the Internet being filled with millions of web pages, constantly being added by the minute.  With this work, I am speculating about a world where people will be limited to using one HTML page only, and have to find the means to work with space on a web page while maintaining proper functionality. In addition, the Virtual Doctor explores the potential issues that can arise when combining medical services with limited space on a web page. Medical patients each have different issues, interests, and particularities, making the Virtual Doctor have to cater to every need. This is why the Virtual Doctor has an assistant, where one can enlarge/minimize the page to open their desired section as well as turn on an audio-assistant which reads out the words if one has visibility issues. However, what happens when the space becomes rather tight and things start to overlap, and soon enough the assistant is covered and the user can no longer access it?  Here the Virtual Doctor demonstrates the potential issues the future can hold in terms of robots catering to very personal needs of patients, as robots can never truly replace human beings in that sense and will always have the potential to generate technical errors.

The Virtual Doctor functions primarily through JavaScript. Many JavaScript libraries have been used for this work, such as tracker.js for the login page, ResponsiveVoice.js for the audio assist, jQuery UI for the resizable sections, and elizabot.js for the psychologist/counsellor. JSON data is also frequently used to generate random diagnoses as well as list hundreds of pharmaceutical drugs. The user experience is made to become increasingly difficult as the user runs through all the sections. Firstly, the user goes through the diagnosis center, where they are given a certain percentage of probable diseases/illness they will get which can be changed randomly by resizing the section over and over again. Secondly, the user goes through psychologist (elizabot.js) and the user has to truly stretch the section down to see the whole conversation.  Next is the heartrate tracker, where the user must click the fast-moving ball a certain amount of times to get a reading. This begins to generate a frustrating user experience, in addition to the fact that the reading disappears once the user resizes the sections again. Finally the user reaches the pharmacy, where they find a completely disordered and disorganized list of medication that is constantly moving. If they were to resize the pharmacy section, the medication lists would begin to move faster and faster until they would become nearly impossible to read. All of these elements are enabled for the user to question space on a web page, and how we often take for granted how web page spaces can alter user experience and behaviour. The work also reveals the reality of robots making technical errors, essentially stating that they can never be truly human.  

PS: The Virtual Doctor seems to work more smoothly on Google Chrome, so I would suggest using this browser!  
