The underlying concept for this project was to demonstrate the numerous distractions that take place in my life on a daily basis, resulting from the computer or other technological appliances that I carry with me.  These distractions often make me question my concentration and make me think that I should be working much harder than I am. The fact that I always have some sort of smart-technology on me on all times allows these appliances to track me at any given hour of any given day, giving me an idea of what my online personality is by giving me statistics on my behaviour when using them. These “archives” demonstrate the negative consequences that these appliances have on my concentration and the complex thought patterns that emerge as a result of knowing the unhealthy effects it has on me.

Using JavaScript, the page that appears depends on the day of the week it is. All containing practically the same code, each day-specific page has different messages and different responses. The reply options will not always generate the same pop up animated messages; therefore the site is very interactive as the user experience will vary depending on the day/message that appears. CSS animation is also frequently used to generate more dynamic elements in the web page. ResponsiveVoice.js is additionally used in interactive ways, primarily through mouseover functions on certain elements in the page. The user experience is meant to be very confusing and overwhelming; similarly to the experience I have when dealing with these distractions and their consequences.

*The mainscript.js is the file that contains all the script used in the webpage. The other scripts are just slightly modified to have different text strings, but contain the same code.
